---
layout: post
title: "TBD"
date: 2025-04-12
length:
location: San Francisco, California
---

I've been meaning to write this for some time. Whenever I write one of these, there's a deep sense of urgency and an emotion I can't contain. This blog has been dear to me - it's my public diary, a way to express myself with maximum freedom. I write for myself and for the future me who'd be curious about whatever it is that I think about on the daily. I don't journal a lot. In fact, I've tried hard to journal everyday at various points in the last decade, but I've never stuck with it. It's because I am far too judgemental and subconsciously think that I don't have a happening life with very much to talk about every single day (I can already sense the lifetime journalers? coming at me with a "oh Yash, let your mind run free, don't overthink this bro"). To be honest, I actually quite dig a good routine and the peace that comes with it. Coming back, I now only write whenever I desperately need to get things off my chest _and_ to somewhat derive joy from the process.

I haven't published anything in a long time, but I have been thinking about writing a long-form since end of last year. Usually, I have a semblance of a storyline in mind, but this time, I have none. In any case, this is about the thoughts I've had on the overarching themes of life as well as the deep conviction I'm starting to build around some core beliefs. This may get long-winded and jump from place to place, and for that, my sincere apologies.

With the preface out of the way, I'd like to begin by saying that I've been practising gratefulness. One month back, the stars aligned and I woke up feeling ... content. Crazy concept, innit? I wrote a draft of what I thought would turn into a warm-up blog to the one you're reading right now. It didn't. It did give me a chance to count my blessings though.

There's a lot of pain out there. People lose their parents. There's no friends or family to hold them at the funeral. There's people dealing with severe PTSD and chronic illnesses. There's people who slog away their lives as slaves, be it househelp or manual labor in horrible conditions, and their children won't know any better either. People are unhappy that they aren't in a relationship. People are unhappier that they _are_ in a relationship - the relationship they are in is manipulative, abusive, etc. In essence, there's endless misery if you go looking.

It's not like I don't moan about the slightest of inconveniences, I very much do. Sure, everyone's suffering is unique. Yet some pain _is_ more painful than other pain (woah, do I miss John Green). All this to say, **I am not special** and can fall prey to any of the unfortunate circumstances of life, at any time really. It's a reminder that I have a great deal to be thankful for.

I am grateful for my mother who's the strongest woman I know, for my father whom I can draw inspiration from daily, for my sister who can move mountains, for the few friends whose company I cherish deeply. I am grateful for the many opportunities I've been afforded, the ones people beg for a thousandth of in their lifetimes. So glad to have an able body and a mind that can formulate opinions. No debt. No overbearing manager. Unlimited falafel in the fridge.

These days, I get extremely annoyed whenever someone around my age conveys this all-too-common feeling that they are growing old and that they haven't "done enough." First off, this is often categorically false - people have a tendency to denigrate and undersell themselves at their low points, I know this because I do this all the time. No grace to myself. Though what irks me the most here is not that someone feels a certain way but it is that they are in denial, and from my observation, this drives a lot of their depression.

Now do I wish I didn't have to pluck out the single gray hair off my beard every few days? Yeah bro, you bet. But I am in no denial about age. Maybe I feel unusually optimistic in this moment, but I am convinced that time is _not_ running away and that there's so much of life yet to experience. Of course, this is no permission to dilly-dally. I barely remember anything at all from a decade ago, I have five more left to live... To wrap, a few words from my all-time character Count Rostov from A Gentleman in Moscow -

> [...] he should walk among the willows, read a timeless text, converse with a friend, beneath the pergola, or reflect before the fire - engaging in those endeavors that have no appointed hour, and that dictate their own beginnings and ends.

Poetic.

Specifically on lessons I've learned from my father off late. Over the last year or so, the depth of our one-to-one conversations has increased materially. He's almost 60 now and has lived what I consider to be a full life, eventful and borderline insane. He's fierce and leaves no stone unturned in the pursuit of his dreams which he still has plenty of. Recently I asked him what he prays about every morning. He told me, pointedly, that he wishes to have the strength equivalent to that of a collective of ten thousand elephants. He prays for a mental fortress. He has a big ego and, for as long as I can remember, he has stood up for himself and picked up disputes with people in the community. I asked him why that is, and he mentioned that on average, only one out of a hundred thousand people has the self belief to do whatever it takes (he's the one, by the way). Everyone else, especially true for where I come from, revels in the opportunity to bring the one person down and in turn somehow feel fulfilled in their life. Jealously. People hate to admit that they're jealous. It's a very human emotion - good fuel for the proverbial fire, for better or for worse.

My father came from poverty, yet he, alongside my mother, was able to provide my sister and I a childhood of abundance. We have enough now, bang average middle class as per both Indian and western standards. There's no substitute for experience - he's had his fair share of fumbles, which in a strange way provide him with the confidence to trust himself and go all in.

I believe I too have a mildly obsessive personality. Over the last three years, I have spent a good chunk of time trading crypto, outside my 9-to-5 job. I can feel you judging me (Ryan Gosling is my goat). I generally hate discussing this in person because a) often people roll their eyes and I don't care about convincing them one way or another, b) I'm insecure about this myself - the state of being always on drains so much energy that I prefer to white lie to keep conversations short, and c) there's more to me than trading. Now I've never been a gamer myself, but the best way to describe whatever it is I do is through the lens of an MMORPG (credits to [jez](https://oldcoinbad.com/p/a-starter-guide-to-the-crypto-mmo)). A community, levels/xp, money, etc.

I'm not daytrading, that I think is _too_ skilled for me - I'm a smoothbrain after all. I'm trying to find pockets of arbitrage that I can exploit, whether through better tools and source of information or simply faster hands. It's a game of selling to the greater fool. In this space, I am of the firm belief that I'd rather make money than be right, i.e. even though I may not be delusional enough to consider crypto as actually useful, it doesn't stop me from trying to extract +EV from the market.

In other words, I like to win. I have always been competitive, though I try hard to not be a sore loser. It's a space with asymmetric opportunities with unfathomable outcomes (both upside and downside) for anyone willing to grind and hone their edge. Please understand that whatever I say here carries a ton of survivorship bias - it's not like I've "made it," in fact far from it, but the fact that I am not zeroed out already puts me in the top 10% percent of the players in this game. I am dangerously passionate about the things I enjoy. You spend enough time with me, I can convince you to gamble your entire bankroll on worthless shitcoins or, worse yet, watch test cricket with me, maybe even both at the same time. Jokes aside, I don't intentionally lead my friends astray. My risk tolerance has built up over years, paying a lot of tuition to the game along the way. I don't sportsbet, nor have I been to a brick-and-mortar casino. I simply refuse to partake in bets that are a cointoss at best.

All this is cope from my side and perhaps a gambler justifying his addiction. The overaching idea that there should be a balance in everything rubs me the wrong way. The concept of work-life balance is so ingrained in the society, and for good reason too, that it's hard to know when to take the leap and go all in on something. A friend reminded me recently that **average people do average things**. People are often unwilling to sacrifice anything and they much prefer balance because it's the natural progression of life. Everyone loves a shortcut to the destination (more money, happy home, fit body - same concept).

I sacrified my sleep, mental and physical health, a budding relationship, countless events to connect with friends and family. My dopamine receptors are fried. Do I have regrets? Absolutely. On bad days, I am miserable. I am unfortunately not at the "live life with no regrets" stage yet. On good days like today, I can reflect, be reasonable and a little kind to myself. Now I am slowly internalizing that there's no comparing the two sides on a scale. You take whatever you've learned and carry it forward. The crypto space is so toxic (I was new to this as I had never actively participated in online "communities") - people casually throw around rape jokes, the n-word, etc and are openly xenophobic and homophobic - that it's tough to remember my why. The entertainment is also non-stop and there's always something spicy happening on Twitter.

After having been on the rollercoaster for a good amount of time, I can confidently say that you simply have to want _it_ 10x more than the next person. Anyone I've known who's "made it" truly lived and breathed the game for months or years on end. For the sake of brevity, I won't try to recollect the umpteen crazy events I've spectated. Though I'll share tidbits of my own experience, as documented in my journal.

1. The end of 2023 was a low point for me. I had the hollow feeling that after months of pulling 16 hr days and running myself into the ground, I didn't have much to show for my input.

2. In Nov 2024, for 36 hrs, I felt sublime. Every opportunity that crossed my screen made sense. The same month, I also fumbled two $10m trades which is an unimaginable sum of money. Had I gone into a coma and got woken up after a month, you would've been reading a success story instead. I've matured when it comes to the whole "shoulda woulda coulda" mindset, so I am not sad about it. Honestly, I find it hilarious. It only adds to my lore.

3. On Jan 17, 2025, I felt small - no other way to put it. On new year's day, I had come to India for a winter vacation. Soon after, I got sick and nursed myself for a good two weeks.

-

I don't have a success story to tell you. As I mentioned earlier, it's not lost on me that I am simply a survivor and that everyone's a genius in the bull market.

I have been asked multiple times as to when I will stop or whether there's a number in my mind. At the moment, I am completely off.

Sometime during covid, I started to realize that people in my generation just don't have

> Ok, but have you imagined what happens if you won?

More on inequality. I will make it clear upfront - I am a capitalistic hoe, I like making money.

I realized that basically my generation, people legit don't have any resources. A lot of our parents own houses but now the economy is so inflated and assets prices so high that wealth inequality is insane. I will make it clear - I am a capitalistic hoe, I like making money. But I still want some semblance of equality.
